Howto "Integrate a relevant search bar to your documentation" (#355)
meilisearch/documentation: resources/howtos/search_bar_for_docs.md

# Integrate a relevant search bar to your documentation

You might have noticed the search bar in this documentation.

![MeiliSearch docs search bar demo](/tuto-searchbar-for-docs/vuepress-searchbar-demo.gif)

And you are probably wanting the same for your own documentation!

> This tutorial aims to explain in detail the required steps to set up a relevant and powerful search bar in your documentation with MeiliSearch 🚀

Author: Ok, I wait for the meeting, because that's the @eskombro sentence 😅

1. [Run a MeiliSearch Instance](#run-a-meilisearch-instance)
2. [Scrap your content](#scrap-your-content)
3. [Integrate the Search Bar](#integrate-the-search-bar)

## Run a MeiliSearch Instance

First of all, you need your documentation content to be scraped and pushed into a MeiliSearch instance.

> This can be done in a few steps. MeiliSearch is open-source and can run on your own server!

Author: Are these words not "agressive" words? Like "it's really easy so if you don't manage to do that, it's weird".
We discussed about that with @bidoubiwa a long time ago.

> Check out this well-explained tutorial about [how to run MeiliSearch in production](/resources/tutorials/running_production.md).

Author: Not really because the scraper will not work on localhost. They need to have an instance in production.

If you get used to the DigitalOcean droplets, you can easily [create one](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/meilisearch?action=deploy&refcode=7c67bd97e101).

::: note

The host URL and the API key you will provide in the next steps are the credentials of this MeiliSearch instance.

:::

## Scrap your Content

> The Meili team provides and maintains a [scraper tool](https://github.com/meilisearch/docs-scraper) to scrap your website content and automatically index it into MeiliSearch.

Author: (There are 3 "automatically" in your suggestion @eskombro 🙂)

Will discuss that together or even ask @erlend-sh 😇
Is it better to use technical terms here (`scrap`) or to describe the scraping?

> The Meili team provides and maintains a [scraper tool](https://github.com/meilisearch/docs-scraper) to scrap your website content and automatically index it into MeiliSearch.

Reviewer: I did not see that `scraper tool` was used before the sentence. In which case I think it is a good idea to introduce the concept in this sentence. 

Suggestion on suggestion: I changed indexed by store because it is not the scraper that indexes but MeiliSearch. This keeps the sentence more easy to read.
```suggestion
The Meili team provides and maintains a [scraper tool](https://github.com/meilisearch/docs-scraper) to scrap your website content and store it into MeiliSearch.
```

### Configuration File

> The scraper needs a configuration file to know the content to be scraped thanks to the selectors (e.g. the HTML tag).

Author: The @bidoubiwa is easier to read for me (not sure that's a good news ahaha). Will discuss that 😇

> The scraper needs a configuration file to know the content to be scraped thanks to the selectors (e.g. the HTML tag).

Reviewer: @tpayet, no that's why I removed the CSS part in my suggestion. Those are HTML attributes before they are CSS selectors.

@tpayet @eskombro "customize" implies that it works without. Which is not the case. I think providing selectors is mandatory.

> The scraper needs a configuration file to know the content to be scraped thanks to the selectors (e.g. the HTML tag).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scraper tool needs a configuration file to know what content you want to scrape, this is done by providing selectors (e.g. the HTML tag).
```

> The scraper needs a configuration file to know the content to be scraped thanks to the selectors (e.g. the HTML tag).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need a configuration file to define the content to be indexed using selectors
```

Here is a basic configuration file:

```json
{
  "index_uid": "docs",
  "start_urls": ["https://www.example.com/doc/"],
  "sitemap_urls": ["https://www.example.com/sitemap.xml"],
  "stop_urls": [],
  "selectors": {
    "lvl0": {
      "selector": ".docs-lvl0",
      "global": true,
      "default_value": "Documentation"
    },
    "lvl1": {
      "selector": ".docs-lvl1",
      "global": true,
      "default_value": "Chapter"
    },
    "lvl2": ".docs-content .docs-lvl2",
    "lvl3": ".docs-content .docs-lvl3",
    "lvl4": ".docs-content .docs-lvl4",
    "lvl5": ".docs-content .docs-lvl5",
    "lvl6": ".docs-content .docs-lvl6",
    "text": ".docs-content p, .docs-content li"
  }
}
```

The `index_uid` field is the index identifier in your MeiliSearch instance in which your website content is stored. The scraping tool will create a new index if it does not exist.

> The `docs-content` class is the main container of your textual content. Most of the time, this tag is a `<main>` or an `<article>` HTML element.

Author: You're right, my bad, bad copy/paste.

> The `docs-content` class is the main container of the textual content in this example. Most of the time, this tag is a `<main>` or an `<article>` HTML element.

Reviewer: This is from their official doc
> Add a static class DocSearch-content to the main container of your textual content. Most of the time, this tag is a <main> or an <article> HTML element.

Which is different to what you are saying.

> The `docs-content` class is the main container of the textual content in this example. Most of the time, this tag is a `<main>` or an `<article>` HTML element.

Add a static class DocSearch-content to the main container of your textual content. Most of the time, this tag is a <main> or an <article> HTML element.

`lvlX` selectors should use the standard title tags like `h1`, `h2`, `h3`, etc. You can also use static classes. Set a unique id or name attribute to these elements.

> Every searchable `lvl` elements outside this main documentation container (for instance, in a sidebar) must be `global` selectors. They will be globally picked up and injected to every record built from your page.

Reviewer: > They will be globally picked up and injected to every record built from your page.

What do you mean with this?

Reviewer: Maybe `record` is their way of saying `document`?

In our case, the main container is `theme-default-content` and the selector the titles and sub-titles are `h1`, `h2`...

### Run the Scraper

You can run the scraper with Docker:

```bash
$ docker run -t --rm \
    -e MEILISEARCH_HOST_URL=<your-meilisearch-host-url> \
    -e MEILISEARCH_API_KEY=<your-meilisearch-api-key> \
    -v <absolute-path-to-your-config-file>:/docs-scraper/config.json \
    getmeili/docs-scraper:v0.9.0 pipenv run ./docs_scraper config.json
```

::: note

If you don't want to use Docker, here are [other ways to run the scraper](https://github.com/meilisearch/docs-scraper#installation-and-usage).

:::

`<your-meilisearch-host-url>` and `<your-meilisearch-api-key>` should be replaced by the credentials of the MeiliSearch instance you set up at [the first step](./search_bar_for_docs.md#run-a-meilisearch-instance).
`<absolute-path-to-your-config-file>` should be the **absolute** path of your configuration file defined at [the previous step](./search_bar_for_docs.md#configuration-file).

> The API key you must provide should have the permissions to add documents into your MeiliSearch instance. Thus, you need to provide the private key or the master key.

Reviewer 3: I think you should say the private key. I don't think the master key should be used in a script or wherever. As I see it, it should be used to create the public/private key pair, and that's all, IMO

Author: Agreed

In your Vuepress project:

```bash
$ yarn add vuepress-plugin-meilisearch
# or
$ npm install vuepress-plugin-meilisearch
```

In your `config.js` file:

```js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    [
      "vuepress-plugin-meilisearch",
      {
        "hostUrl": "https://mymeilisearch.com",
        "apiKey": "XXX",
        "indexUid": "docs"
      }
    ],
  ],
}
```

The `hostUrl` and the `apiKey` fields are the credentials of the MeiliSearch instance you set up at [the first step](./search_bar_for_docs.md#run-a-meilisearch-instance).
`indexUid` is the index identifier in your MeiliSearch instance in which your website content is stored. It has been defined in the [config file](./search_bar_for_docs.md#configuration-file).

These three fields are mandatory, but more [optional fields are available](https://github.com/meilisearch/vuepress-plugin-meilisearch#customization) to customize your search bar.

::: warning

Since the configuration file is public, we recommend providing the MeiliSearch public key, which is enough to perform search requests.
Read more about [MeiliSearch authentication](/guides/advanced_guides/authentication.md).

:::

### For All Kinds of Documentation

> If you don't use Vuepress for your documentation, we provide a [JS and CSS library](https://github.com/meilisearch/docs-searchbar.js) to integrate a powerful and relevant search bar to any documentation website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't use Vuepress for your documentation, we provide a [user interface](https://github.com/meilisearch/docs-searchbar.js) to integrate a powerful and relevant search bar to any documentation website.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you don't use Vuepress for your documentation, we provide a [front-end SDK](https://github.com/meilisearch/docs-searchbar.js) to integrate a powerful and relevant search bar to any documentation website.
```

:::

`<absolute-path-to-your-config-file>` should be the **absolute** path of your configuration file defined at [the previous step](./search_bar_for_docs.md#configuration-file).

> The API key you must provide should have the permissions to add documents into your MeiliSearch instance. It means the private key is enough to perform this kind of request. Thus, in a production environment, we recommend providing the private key instead of the master key.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The API key you must provide should have the permissions to add documents into your MeiliSearch instance. In a production environment, we recommend providing the private key.
```

Author: Your suggestion seems not clear to me. I would rather (at least) let "instead of the master key" to continue with the main example.

Reviewer 3: Updated ;)

Author: And why don't you want to let the explanation about the private key is enough? ^^

Reviewer 3: Is not that I don't want the explanation, I think it's the formulation that I don't like. Maybe just removing the "it means". I updated my suggestion again.
